Update documentation for the block builder (#94)
nickmoreton/wagtail-wordpress-import: docs/blockbuilder.md

# Block Builder

- [Block Builder](#block-builder)
  - [What is a Block Builder?](#what-is-a-block-builder)
  - [How does the Block Builder work?](#how-does-the-block-builder-work)
  - [Included Blocks](#included-blocks)
    - [Heading Block `<h1>`](#heading-block-h1)
    - [Table Block `<table>`](#table-block-table)
    - [Iframe Block `<iframe>`](#iframe-block-iframe)
    - [Form Block `<form>`](#form-block-form)
    - [Image Block `<img />`](#image-block-img-)
    - [Blockquote Block `<blockquote>`](#blockquote-block-blockquote)
    - [Included Fallback Block](#included-fallback-block)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [Examples](#examples)
  - [Extending the package WPImportStreamBlocks](#extending-the-package-wpimportstreamblocks)

## What is a Block Builder?

The Block Builder transforms the body HTML content which could contain a lot of HTML tags and content into a sequence of Wagtail StreamField blocks.

> It does this by parsing the HTML content and converting each top level tag finds into a specific block type defined in settings.

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Fix typo.

```suggestion
It does this by parsing the HTML content and converting each top level tag it finds into a specific block type defined in settings.
```

> The default stream block mapping:

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Capitalisation

```suggestion
The default StreamBlock mapping:
```

```python
WAGTAIL_WORDPRESS_IMPORTER_CONVERT_HTML_TAGS_TO_BLOCKS = {
    "h1": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_heading_block",
    "table": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_table_block",
    "iframe": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_iframe_block",
    "form": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_form_block",
    "img": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_image_block",
    "blockquote": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_block_quote_block",
}
```

> Any HTML tags encountered during parsing that don't have a mapping in the settings above are are combined into a single fallback StreamField block. This generally means that consecutive `<p>` tags are combined into the same block, **A RichText block is the package default**.

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Fix typo, and change wording.

```suggestion
Any HTML tags encountered during parsing that don't have a mapping in the settings above are combined into a single fallback StreamField block. This generally means that consecutive `<p>` tags are combined into the same block.
```

(We mention the default fallback block type in more detail later.)

> It's possible other HTML tags that are not included in the default mapping will also be combined into the RichText block. This may not be the desired behaviour for your requirements and is where you should add a mapping in your own sites settings to override the default behaviour for the specific HTML tag.

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Wording.

```suggestion
It's possible other HTML tags that are not included in the default mapping will also be combined into the RichTextBlock. This may not be the desired behaviour for your data. To import HTML tags that are not in the default mapping, or to change the default behaviour for a specific HTML tag, you can change the mapping in your own site's settings.
```

> The default fallback block it a RichText block and is defined in settings:

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Fix typo.

```suggestion
The default fallback block builder function returns a RichTextBlock. You can override this in settings:
```

Q Have I used the correct terminology calling it a "block builder function"?

```python

> WAGTAIL_WORDPRESS_IMPORTER_FALLBACK_BLOCK = "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_none_block_content

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Show how to override it, rather than how it is currently configured.

```suggestion
WAGTAIL_WORDPRESS_IMPORTER_FALLBACK_BLOCK = "my_fallback_block_builder_function"
```

```

## How does the Block Builder work?

> After all the HTML content has been parsed and converted into a sequence of StreamField blocks it is held in memory as a dict and then passed to the Wagtail page instance as a serialized JSON string.

Reviewer: **Question**: "Passed to", or saved as a field?

Author: Will update this and going with `... saved to the Wagtail page instance StreamField.`

While creating each StreamField block the Block Builder will also implement the following:

1. Find images in the HTML content and download them to the Wagtail images app and link them correctly using the image ID.

> 2. Find linked documents in the HTML content and download them to the Wagtail documents app and link them correctly using the document ID.

Reviewer: **Question**: Is this part of the block builder, or part of the import hooks?

Author: It's not using the import hooks here but is using the get_or_save_image() and get_or_save_document() functions which we do suggest is used when creating an import hook function in the [import hooks documentation]( https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail-wordpress-import/blob/feature/import-authors/docs/import_hooks.md#sample-function-for-processing-the-header-image)

blocks.RawHTMLBlock()
```

### Image Block `<img />`

> *This block is not been used at the moment and is likely to be removed or repurposed in future versions.*

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Fix typo.

```suggestion
*This block is not being used at the moment and is likely to be removed or repurposed in future versions.*
```

        template = "wagtail_wordpress_import/quote_block.html"
```

### Included Fallback Block

By default, the fallback block is a Wagtail `RichText` Block.

Only content that has no specific block filter is added to the fallback block.

Example: `<p> <ul> <a> <img /> ...`

> *This block is only saved to the block sequence each time the builder finds a new Block is required in the sequence or the builder has reached the end of the content parsing.*

Reviewer: **Issue**: I don't actually understand this comment. I have a suggestion, which might clarify one aspect, but even then I don't follow.

```suggestion
*This block is only saved to the block sequence each time the builder determines that a new Block is required in the sequence or the builder has reached the end of the content parsing.*
```

Author: Say we have the following HTML thats been processed by the block builder.

```html
<h1>Heading</h1> <!-- heading block --> 
<p>Some content</p> <!-- rich text block 1 --> (cached)
<p>Some content</p> <!-- rich text block 1 --> (cached)
<p>Some content</p> <!-- rich text block 1 --> (cached)
<blockquote><p>A quote</p></blockquote> <!-- block quote block -->
<h2>heading</h2> <!-- rich text block 2 -->  (cached)
<p>Some content</p> <!-- rich text block 2 --> (cached)
<p>Some content</p> <!-- rich text block 2 --> (cached)
<table>...</table> <!-- raw html block -->
<p>Some content</p> <!-- rich text block 3 --> (cached)
<p>Some content</p> <!-- rich text block 3 --> (not cached because it's the last tag and the sequence is completed)
```
We end up with 6 block types.

This block has extra processing included each time it is saved as a block to the block sequence.

> 1. The `<img />` src values are parsed and if the image is a local to site image it is fetched and saved to the Wagtail Images app. The `<img />` tags are updated to the Wagtail RichText embedded content type. e.g. `<embed embedtype="image" id="1001" alt="A image description" format="left" />`

Reviewer: **Question**: What does "a local to site image" mean?

Author: An image which is part of the domain name of the site thats been imported.

Author: I'll make this clearer.

2. All the `<a href="..."></a>` href values are analyzed and if the href is a document type it is fetched and saved to the Wagtail Documents app. The `<a href=""></a>` are updated to the Wagtail RichText linktype format. e.g. `<a id="1001" linktype="document">link</a>`

> Note: The fallback block may contain other HTML `<a>` tags that are links to other pages in your Wagtail site. These links are not processed bt the block builder but are processed at the end of the import process because all the imported pages need to exist for this to happen.

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Fix typo.

```suggestion
Note: The fallback block may contain other HTML `<a>` tags that are links to other pages in your Wagtail site. These links are not processed by the block builder but are processed at the end of the import process because all the imported pages need to exist for this to happen.
```

Filter:

```python

> def build_none_block_content(cache, blocks):

Reviewer: **Issue**: Function naming. I think we mean "non" rather than "none" here. Would it be better to call this what it is, rather than what it doesn't do? It's not a function that others need to refer to.

```suggestion
def build_richtext_block_content(cache, blocks):
```

Author: Yes It could be. I'll change the function name as well for this change.

You can add your own configuration to control the Block Building process.

Below is the included configuration.

```python
WAGTAIL_WORDPRESS_IMPORTER_CONVERT_HTML_TAGS_TO_BLOCKS = {
    "h1": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_heading_block",
    "table": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_table_block",
    "iframe": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_iframe_block",
    "form": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_form_block",
    "img": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_image_block",
    "blockquote": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_block_quote_block",
}
```

### Examples

> Include the `h1` - `h6` HTML tags in the config to create them as separate StreamField blocks for each heading size.

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: I know it's getting pretty nesty, but can we add a summary heading for each of these examples, to make it clear that they're not instructions?

```suggestion
#### Headings as separate blocks

Include the `h1` - `h6` HTML tags in the config to create them as separate StreamField blocks for each heading size.
```

Author: Will update this

> Copy the default configuration below to your own sites settings and add the required HTML tags with an accompanying function to be called for that HTML tag.

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Fix typo, and change wording.

```suggestion
Copy the default configuration below to your own site's settings and add the required HTML tags with an corresponding function to be called for each tag.
```

```python
WAGTAIL_WORDPRESS_IMPORTER_CONVERT_HTML_TAGS_TO_BLOCKS = {
    "h1": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_heading_block",
    "h2": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_heading_block",
    "h3": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_heading_block",
    "h4": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_heading_block",
    "h5": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_heading_block",
    "h6": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_heading_block",
    "table": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_table_block",
    "iframe": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_iframe_block",
    "form": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_form_block",
    "img": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_image_block",
    "blockquote": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_block_quote_block",
}
```

*The package provided block builder function for headings will work as expected for this example therefore a new Block Builder function isn't required.*

> ---

Reviewer: **Comment**: Ah, sorry, I missed these `<hr>` elements. Still, my suggestion would be:

```suggestion
#### Custom blockquote
```

Author: Will update this

Change the Block Builder function to use your own provided function to create a `blockquote` block.

Copy the default configuration below to your own sites settings and add the required function to build the block.

```python
WAGTAIL_WORDPRESS_IMPORTER_CONVERT_HTML_TAGS_TO_BLOCKS = {
    "h1": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_heading_block",
    "table": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_table_block",
    "iframe": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_iframe_block",
    "form": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_form_block",
    "img": "wagtail_wordpress_import.block_builder_defaults.build_image_block",
    "blockquote": "path.to.my_site.block.functions.my_block_quote",
}
```

and create a filter function in your own Wagtail site which will receive a single parameter for the tag. The tag is a `BeautifulSoup` tag object.

```python

> def my_block_quote(tag):
>     # return a dict with the block type and value
>     block_quote = {
>         "type": "block_quote_block",
>         # type is the block type name in your stream_field
>         "value": {
>             "quote": tag.text.strip(), 
>             "attribution": tag.cite,
>         }
>         # value is the block value for each block type and 
>         # could contain child blocks depending on your implementation
>     }
>     return block_quote # return the block as a type(dict)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
def my_block_quote(tag):
    """Return a Python dict with the block type and value.
    
    The value could contain child blocks, depending on your implementation.
    """
    return {
        "type": "block_quote_block",  # the StreamField block type name
        "value": {
            "quote": tag.text.strip(), 
            "attribution": tag.cite,
        }
    }
```

```

In your own site you could have a block class like the example below

Wagtail Block:

```python
class MyQuoteBlock(blocks.StructBlock):
    quote = blocks.CharBlock()
    attribution = blocks.CharBlock(required=False)

    class Meta:
        # choose the icon thats most appropriate here
        icon = "openquote" 
        # and also define a template for the block
        template = "templates/blocks/my_quote_block.html"
```

In your own sites StreamField block the block type will need to be available with the name `block_quote_block` for this example but you can call your block type whatever you want.

```python

> # your Wagatail page model

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Fix typo.

```suggestion
# your Wagtail page model
```

class MyPage(Page):
    body = StreamField(MyStreamBlocks(), required=False)
    ...

    content_panels = Page.content_panels + [
        StreamFieldPanel("body")
    ]
    ...

# your Wagtail stream block class
class MyStreamBlocks(blocks.StreamBlock):

>     block_quote_block = MyQuiteBlock()

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: Fix typo.

```suggestion
    block_quote_block = MyQuoteBlock()
```
